
| [Abstract](LSP2-Abstract.md)                        | 3. [Light Aberration](LSP2-Light-Aberration.md)       | 7. [Experiment Proposal](LSP2-Experiment.md)                          | [Appendix C](LSP2-Appendix-C.md) | [Appendix G](LSP2-Appendix-G.md) |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| [Introduction](LSP2-Introduction.md)               | 4. [Full Transformation](LSP2-Full-Transformation.md) | 8. [References and Declarations](LSP2-References-and-Declarations.md) | [Appendix D](LSP2-Appendix-D.md) | [Appendix H](LSP2-Appendix-H.md) |
| 1. [Light Propagation](LSP2-Propagation.md)         | 5. [Doppler Effects](LSP2-Doppler.md)                 | [Appendix A](LSP2-Appendix-A.md)                                      | [Appendix E](LSP2-Appendix-E.md) | [Appendix I](LSP2-Appendix-I.md) |
| 2. [Length Contraction](LSP2-Length-Contraction.md) | 6. [Results](LSP2-Results.md)                         | [Appendix B](LSP2-Appendix-B.md)                                      | [Appendix F](LSP2-Appendix-F.md) | [Appendix J](LSP2-Appendix-J.md) |
# Appendix G (GR Hypothesis)

General Relativity was developed on the back of Special Relativity.
There are several factors of Special Relativity which have been
challenged, and probably in the case of the reality of relativity will
in turn affect General Relativity.

Before developing math for the one-way constant speed of light through
space, I had researched General Relativity and Einstein Field Equations.
I found that it would be possible to curve space directly, rather than
over time. The equation of
*S*<sup>2</sup> = $C$*T*<sup>2</sup> + $V$<sup>2</sup> is not symmetric
in this case; the propagation equations would be something of a
replacement for this expression. In General Relativity it’s taken that
everything moves at the speed C through space-time. Moving at the speed
of C for an object which has a low velocity means it’s moving quickly
through time to compensate. This idea would require each body to have
its own time, when in reality it seems there is only a single ‘now’
across the whole universe; a single moment of time. During each moment
of time things move, emit and receive photons, but there is nothing that
has already happened, which would be something that happens after ‘now’,
and things that have already happened no longer exist in that state,
there is no before ‘now’ that one could return to. The only thing about
time that changes is the speed of clocks, so having a different velocity
through time would be meaningless.

I started testing the compression idea using Geogebra, which provides a
free 3D graphing calculator.

-   [Geogebra 3D graph](https://www.geogebra.org/3d/mb5wpnu6) - I
    started testing the math here but subtracting |x| and |y|
    independently from the hyperbolic displacements make more of a bell
    curve instead of an arc; especially very close to 0.

Then I did some demos to test displacing straight lines by an extrinsic
curvature. Light travels straight lines through space, although due to a
displacement or curvature of space, the path may not be actually
straight.

-   [Single
    Source](https://d3x0r.github.io/STFRPhysics/math/mathSphereDecay) -
    This shows curvature for a single point displacement.

-   [4
    Sources](https://d3x0r.github.io/STFRPhysics/math/gravityFields.html) -
    This is four point displacements; the points do not move and do not
    scale with the displacement they generate.

-   [3D 4
    sources](https://d3x0r.github.io/STFRPhysics/3d/index-gravity-field.html) -
    3D stack of multiple planes; with the 'zLevel' set near 0, the
    planes of 'geodesic light paths' include the plane of the
    displacements.

-   [Inner Rotation Curve
    Explorer](https://d3x0r.github.io/STFRPhysics/3d/indexSphereMap3.html) -
    This explores what the frames are for the proposed filler curve;
    turns out to be geodesic rotations of a frame from one pole through
    the other and back to the start with the originating orientation.

It has been proposed that to curve space, that one additional dimension
is required. In the case of a 1-dimensional, straight line, it only
requires one dimension to represent, but requires 2 in a higher level to
bend the line, and 3 to curve the line into a helix. Similarly, if you
have a 2D plane, and make a hill in it, it requires an additional
dimension to represent, but you can also maintain the flat plane
orientation and curve it only in that plane. Finally, in the case of a
3D space, it might seem logical to propose that a 4<sup>th</sup>
dimension is required to curve it, but it doesn’t take a 4<sup>th</sup>
dimension in order to curve a block of clay into a vase.

Space as an incompressible medium could also be curved by just applying
a force to displace the space from its original position. This would
stretch/elongate the space around the displacement source, and to
maintain the same volume, would shorten in the direction perpendicular
to the displacement. The Geogebra graph above has a hyperbolic plane
that represents the ratio of compression of various levels.

<img src="attach/media/image8.png"
style="width:7.125in;height:5.75833in"
alt="Figure G-1: Geogebra graph." />  
Figure G-1 : Example graph from Geogebra calculator showing hyperbolic
surface, and falloff rings.

The falloff of the compression is $\frac{1}{r^{2}}$, which is the same
as the falloff of gravity. I haven’t fully developed and applied the
math for this to physics but did experiment with curvature as seen by
the Eddington Experiment. (I don’t find the notes I made, was somewhat
temporary, so there may be glaring errors) The displacement required at
the surface of the sun is only 9000km, to displace the path of light
through space the 1.75 arcseconds that was seen. Computing how much
space from the total mass of the sun, if it was filled entirely with
hydrogen atoms, gave a number for the size of a proton as 200fm. The
actual size is expected to be 3.3fm; there is a rather large discrepancy
and gets worse if considering that heavier atoms don’t displace much
more space.

## Hypothesis regarding the difference between calculation and experiment

Hypothetically, this difference is because of the way space is curved
around a mass. Since photons travel through space, the space very near a
mass will deflect the photon around the mass and not actually interact
with it. If the photon is exactly head on, then there isn’t so much
distinction about what direction to go around the mass, and there’s a
high degree of uncertainty. Since the wavelength of the measurement
occupies some lateral space, it will only really be able to detect the
displacement in space at a distance of the wavelength of the wave;
otherwise, the wave would likely all go around one side or another of
the mass, and not actually interact with it.

## Some other papers

These are some other long notes with images and examples.

<https://github.com/d3x0r/STFRPhysics/blob/master/math/TheNotBang.md>

<https://github.com/d3x0r/STFRPhysics/blob/master/math/mathSphereDecay.md>

## Gravitational Redshift

The Pound-Rebka experiment tested red and blue shift of heated Iron
emitting photons up and down a very tall tower at Harvard. Light emitted
from lower in a gravity well, will be in space that is stretched, but is
also compressed along the gravitational gradient, and as it goes up
enters space, which is less stretched, but relaxes in the length of the
space along the gravity gradient which is less compressed. Additionally,
the detector will be in space that is less stretched and be smaller than
expected; relatively it will detect a photon as more red shifted from
space with more stretch, while additionally the photon will already be
emitted as a wider version of itself and would seem red shifted compared
to a photon emitted in more compressed space. This process reverses and
causes a blue shift when light is emitted in compressed space and enters
more stretched space; the detector will be wider than a detector higher
in the gravity well and receive the wavelength as longer than it is, but
additionally the photon will be more compressed along the direction of
the gravitational gradient. It may be that the lateral
stretching/compression which happens affects the amplitude of the wave
while the stretching/compression along the length of a photon (although
at the speed of light, one would expect a photon to be contracted to 0
length, but it may be that this length contraction doesn’t apply as much
as the time it takes – since light is emitted in a wave the start and
end of the wave happen at different times, so the overall length of a
photon depends on the amount of time it took to emit it.

Any displacement that occurs is persistent and never actually
disappears. The space between galaxies across the universe is
cumulatively stretched by all of the galaxies that exist. Light which
passes through this space is progressively red shifted since the space
is effectively more and more stretched from the point of emission until
the point of reception. We only see photons that do not collide/interact
with something along the way. At one point I did a random source of
displacements of various sizes to see what the cumulative effect might
be.

<img src="attach/media/image9.png" style="width:7.125in;height:7.125in"
alt="Figure G-2 : An example of a bunch of displacements of space scattered around. This makes for a fairly homogeneous expansion of space." />  
Figure G-2 : An example of a bunch of displacements of space scattered
around. This makes for a fairly homogeneous expansion of space.

I later turned it into a more algorithmic demonstration:

<img src="attach/media/image10.png"
style="width:7.125in;height:4.82222in"
alt="Figure G-3: Progressive expansion with a geometric distribution. Showing how space has definitive cumulative expansion." />Figure
G-3: Progressive expansion with a geometric distribution. Showing how
space has definitive cumulative expansion.

As more and more sources of displacement are passed, the space is
stretched more and more. But even this is not actually so obvious, since
all of the displacements along the bottom row also shove the space to
the left, which makes it look further to the left… until they are all
visible, then the right edge is somewhat stretched to the right (mostly
visible in the blue light geodesics).

The basic math is just $\sqrt{D^{2} + X^{2} + Y^{2} + Z^{2}}$ where D is
the displacement. This could be negative to test a negative curvature,
but in experimentation, a negative curvature, as it is assumed space
currently has around massive objects, would mean that a black hole would
block out an arc of the light behind it, and there would be space
missing; though hypothetically it could be a pocket into a imaginary 3
dimensions or an additional 3 dimensions beyond X,Y, and Z.

This calculation is really a very one-dimensional sort of calculation,
since it’s just a radial offset of a distance from its original
position. The $L = \sqrt{X^{2} + Y^{2} + Z^{2}}$ is just the distance
from a point of displacement to some point in space, and the
displacement might as well be $d = \sqrt{D^{2} + L^{2}}$. The summation
of multiple points of displacement must also be done such that the
closest point of displacement to the point is applied last. This allows
space to flow over a displacement, without being counter-displaced by
the last displacement. Algorithmically, just maintain 1 closest
displacement, until a closer displacement is found, and then replace the
closest with the new closest, then after all other displacements have
been applied, apply the closest.

## On Curvature

I had investigated parallel transport curvature on a surface for a
while, and setup [this curvature explorer
demo](https://d3x0r.github.io/STFRPhysics/3d/indexSphereMap2.html). It
takes 100 steps of some length around a curved surface and then turns a
specified angle 5 times. I also included taking one step, turning by a
fixed amount, and then taking another step for 100 steps. This was to
compare what taking a long chain of 100 step and turn to the step-turn
result ending up back at the pole (or at some point on the sphere).

The curvature of the sphere initially starts at very near 0, so it is
basically like walking on a plane, the curvature can go up quite high,
such that you can walk all the way around back to the pole before
turning, or that it might only take one turn to get back to the starting
pole by going 180 degrees around the sphere to its opposite pole.

The 3D rotation vectors are plotted too, and the difference in the Y
direction might be compared as the Ricci Tensor… (might as in, it’s
something like that but not exactly).

I realized that as curvature increased more and more (as one might
expect for a black hole), that really the radius was just tighter, and
effectively would be somewhat meaningless. The universe as far as we can
see IS flat, but space is locally curved. At that point, I dug deeper
into the Einstein Field Equations, to see what they would effectively
generate, and found they simplified to just adding a 4<sup>th</sup>
dimension to the length; although, it’s not really a 4<sup>th</sup>
dimension, it’s just a force that is otherwise outside of what we think
of as 3D space that photons travel through, but still within the 3
dimensions of space.

<img src="attach/media/image11.png"
style="width:7.125in;height:4.31458in"
alt="PositiveAndNegative curvatures" />  
Figure G-4: Comparison graph of positive curvature (on the left), and
negative curvature (on the right). Positive curvature inserts volume
into space, while negative curvature would subtract a volume of space.

## Gravity and Time Dilation (Contraction)

The time dilation caused by gravity is the same as travelling at the
escape velocity from that gravity well. Since time contraction is caused
by a clock having to cover more space in a certain time than it would if
it was stationary, this also gives how much space is stretched at a
level in a gravitational well.
